---title: What you can expect---
This article gives a more detailed view of your journey through the justice process and the entitlements at each stage.

The most thorough version of this content is the full [Code of Practice for Victims of Crime](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-code-of-practice-for-victims-of-crime) (The Victims' Code) but the most common or important scenarios are covered here. ## <a name="police-investigation"></a>Support while the police are investigating a crimeIf you or someone else tells the police about a crime that happens to you, the police must:- give you information about what is happening and what you should expect from the services involved in law, crime and punishment- do an assessment to find out what support you need- decide if you need extra support- give you the option to have your details shared with other organisations that support victims- tell you if someone is arrested for the crimeWhile the police are investigating the crime you can make a victim personal statement (or impact statement for a business) saying how the crime has affected you.## <a name="before-trial"></a>Support before a trialThe police must tell you if the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) decided to deal with the case without going to court.If you have to go to court to give evidence you can get support from the Witness Care Unit. They will make sure you know:- what to expect in court- when the case will go to court- when the trial will be- if the accused person will be in prison before the trial or on bail- what to expect if you need to give evidence in court – they can arrange for you to go to the court to look round before you have to give evidence- if the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) decides to make any changes to the charge(s) or if they decide not to take the case to court- how to ask the CPS to look again at the case if you are not happy with their decision## <a name="during-trial"></a>Support during the trialYou are allowed to watch the trial in court after you've given your evidence. If you do not have to give evidence you should tell the court you will be there.If you are a witness giving evidence in court you should be able to:- meet the prosecutor and ask about the trial - wait in a different place from the suspect and their friends or family- have any special support the court thinks will help you give evidence- speak to someone who can tell you what will happen at the trial ## Support <a name="after-trial"></a>after the trialYou can get support from victim services to help you after the trial.You are also entitled to claim back any money you spent to go to court.### AppealsThis is when a convicted person asks another court to look at the case again.The Witness Care Unit must tell you what is happening and if there is a change to the sentence the person was given.